Atlanta first, would you pray with me?
Most holy, loving and gracious God, for the gift of this day, we are thankful.
We are thankful for your son.
We are thankful that your son was born, that your son came, that, oh God, you experienced life not just as a man, but as a baby.
And for that, we are grateful.
We thank you that as you gave us your son, we ask that you will now give us your word.
That as you give us your word, that it will enlighten our hearts, inspire our minds and strengthen our souls to be the disciples and the people that you have called and created us to be.
God, I personally just want to thank you for Atlanta first.
Allow your spirit to continue to rest, rule and abide, continue to touch, heal and deliver.
continue to do the work of ministry right here at this sacred intersection.
We thank you, O God, in Christ's name, let all of God's children sing.
Amen.
Reverend Jasmine didn't give me long, so I want to just hop right on into it this morning.
For a few moments, I just want to reflect on the subject.
Address all our distress.
Reverend Jasmine, it is common for us to quote from the prophet Isaiah to help us understand the Christmas story.
We rightfully quote from Isaiah, the seventh chapter and the 14th verse.
It reads, therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign.
Look, a young woman who is with child shall bear a son and you shall name him Emmanuel.
meaning God with us.
We quote from Isaiah chapter seven to understand this Christmas story.
Earlier in this service I read from Isaiah chapter nine.
Isaiah chapter nine verse six says, for a child has been born for us.
A son is given to us.
Authority rests upon his shoulders and he will be named wonderful counselor, mighty God,
everlasting father, Prince of Peace.
I think those are excellent passages from Isaiah to help us understand the mystery, the message, and the meaning of the Christmas story.
But I would actually argue that there is an overlooked.
There is an unexplored.
There is an untapped text nestled in Isaiah.
that gives this season even more revelation and relevance.
The text comes from Isaiah, the 63rd chapter and the 9th verse.
Isaiah 63 and 9 simply reads in all their distress.
It was no messenger.
It was no angel, but his presence that saved them.
In his love and pity, it was he who redeemed them.
He lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
You see, Christmas is a regular reminder that in all our days of distress, Isaiah says all our days of distress, all our days of anguish, all our days of pain, all our days of sin, all our days of tragedy.
All our days of anxiety, all our days of corruption, in all our days, the word all by itself could preach.
Isaiah says God went to Heaven's HR to find a suitable candidate to address all, not some, but Ms. Ruby.
Isaiah says all of our distress.
You see God was looking to find a suitable candidate that could address all our distress.
You see, we know HR as human resources, but God didn't look through human resources to find a candidate.
God looked through Heaven's resources.
God looked at the HR files of all the messengers and said, they may be accurate at communication, but to address all their distress, messengers won't do.
God then looked at the HR file of all the angels.
God looked at Michael the archangel.
Michael was good at war.
Michael was good at protection.
Michael was good at ensuring safety.
But God said to address all their distress, Michael won't do.
God then looked at the HR file of the angel, Gabriel.
Gabriel was the most dependable, the most faithful, the most reliable angel.
Gabriel was the angel that told Mary and Joseph that they would become the holy family.
But God looked at Gabriel's HR file and said, to address all their distress, Gabriel won't do.
God then looked at the HR files of the patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.
God then looked at the HR files of the matriarch, Sarah, Rebecca, and Rachel.
And God said, to address all their distress, granddaddy and big mama just won't do.
God then turned.
God then turned to the HR files of the great prophets.
The great prophets who had received their heavenly reward.
God looked at the file of Moses.
Surely Moses would be a suitable candidate.
Moses parted the Red Sea.
Moses led God's people through the wilderness and Moses brought them right up to the edge of the Promised Land.
Surely this great liberator of Israel was sufficient.
But God said, you know what?
to address all their distress, even Moses won't do.
God then kept looking through the HR files of the prophets.
God said even though the prophet Elijah defeated 450 prophets of Baal, Elijah won't do.
God kept looking and he went through the prophet Jeremiah's files and saw that even though Jeremiah could see God as a wheel in the middle of the wheel, God said Jeremiah won't do.
So God kept looking through the HR files and pulled up Daniel and said Daniel was able to resuscitate those dry bones that lost house of Israel.
But God said Daniel, even he won't do.
So God kept looking through Heaven's HR files and pulled up the greatest politician, surely King David, the great King of Israel, the man after God's own heart, the writer of many songs.
Surely King David was sufficient.
But God said to address all their distress, King David won't do.
To address all their distress, God said messengers won't do, angels won't do, granddaddy won't do, big mama won't do, prophets won't do, and politicians most certainly will not do.
But God said, I know what we'll do.
God said, I know what will come their anxieties.
God said, I know what will heal their sickness and disease.
God said, I know what will forgive their sins.
God said, I know what will turn tragedy into triumph.
What will turn pain into purpose.
What will turn hurt into hope.
God said, I know the one that they can cast their cares upon.
I know the one that will bring down the powerful and lift up the lonely.
God said, I know the
the one who's all sufficient merit is capable to address all their distress.
Isaiah said it was no messenger, it was no angel, but his presence that saved them.
In his love and pity it was he who redeemed them.
God lifted them up and carried them all the days of old.
God set the best heavenly resource to send his God and God alone in the person of Jesus Christ.
On that very first Christmas, as Mary was enduring extruciating labor, the mighty was becoming mortal.
As Joseph was telling Mary to push and breathe, push and breathe, all that was holy was becoming all that is human.
As baby Jesus was working his way through the birth canal, heaven was working its way to heaven.
The Bible says eternity was working its way through time and the divine
was working its way through flesh.
This mystery, this mystery of the incarnation, God entering humanity is God's way of saying, I don't need a messenger.
I don't need an angel.
All you need is me.
All you need is me and sins.
I'm going to send you me through the form of my only begotten son.
You will call him Emmanuel, which means God is with us.
You will call him wonderful counselor.
You will call him mighty God.
You will call him everlasting father.
You will call him Prince of Peace or you might simply call him Mary's precious baby Jesus.
All I know is he is able to address
all our distress.
Merry Christmas Atlanta First.
I pray you have been blessed.